---
title: Process for Working Group Adoption of Drafts
abbrev: Process for Adoption of Drafts
docname: draft-carpenter-gendispatch-draft-adoption-00
date: 2020

# stand_alone: true

ipr: trust200902
area: General
wg: Network Working Group
kw: Internet-Draft
cat: bcp
#updates: 2418

coding: us-ascii
pi:
  toc: yes
  sortrefs:   # defaults to yes
  symrefs: yes

author:
      -
        ins: B. E. Carpenter
        name: Brian E. Carpenter
        org: The University of Auckland
        abbrev: Univ. of Auckland
        street: 
        - School of Computer Science
        - PB 92019
        city: Auckland
        code: 1142
        country: New Zealand
        email: brian.e.carpenter@gmail.com

      -
        ins: F. Gont
        name: Fernando Gont
        org: SI6 Networks
        abbrev: SI6 Networks
        street: Evaristo Carriego 2644
        code: 1706
        city: Haedo
        region: Provincia de Buenos Aires
        country: Argentina
        email: fgont@si6networks.com
        uri: https://www.si6networks.com         

normative:
  RFC2418:
  RFC2026:
  RFC5378:
  RFC8179:

informative:
  RFC7221:

--- abstract

IETF working groups often formally adopt drafts. This document
specifies minimum requirements for this process, thereby
extending RFC 2418. It also describes how an adopted draft
may be withdrawn from the working group process.

--- middle

# Introduction        {#intro}

According to {{RFC2418}}, the Internet-Drafts (I-D) mechanism is a "resource for posting and disseminating in-process copies of working group documents." However, most I-Ds start as
individual contributions and only become working group documents by a WG decision
generally referred to as "adoption." As noted in {{RFC7221}}, this process was not
previously documented as a formal step in the IETF WG process. This has sometimes
led to confusion about the significance of such adoption and about how it
fits into the IETF standards process. The present document is intended to define
a few formal rules about adoption to reduce such confusion.

# Consequences of WG Adoption of an Internet-Draft

After a draft has been formally adopted by a WG, its original authors no longer have
formal change control of the text. In addition to the normal consequence of posting
a draft, i.e., that it becomes an IETF Contribution under {{RFC5378}}, all future
substantive changes to the draft require WG consensus and are no longer at the authors'
sole discretion.

As a practical matter, the original authors usually continue to edit the document
and make routine editorial decisions, but substantive changes must be referred to
the WG and require WG rough consensus, consistently with {{RFC2418}}. It is
also possible that new authors or editors will join the draft, or that previous
authors may withdraw.

Adoption represents a commitment that the WG will spend time and effort on the
draft, but it does not guarantee that the draft will reach WG consensus and be
submitted to the IESG for publication as an RFC.

# Rules for Adoption of an Internet-Draft

WG Adoption of an I-D is not a required step of the IETF standards process. It is legitimate for a draft to be submitted to the IESG as described in {{RFC2026}} without a formal adoption by a WG. However, if a WG chooses to use an adoption process, it must follow the following rules and it should consider the additional guidelines in {{RFC7221}}.

- Any participant may request the adoption of a draft, after there has been a period of technical discussion of the draft in the relevant WG.

- WG Chairs have discretion about when to issue an WG call for adoption, but they should do so regardless of their own opinions, when the WG discussion shows that there is clear interest
in the draft in question.

- A WG Chair or WG Secretary must send a formal WG call for adoption of a draft to the WG mailing list with at least two weeks time to respond.

- This proposal should remind all participants, not just the authors, of their obligation to disclose relevant intellectual property rights (IPR) under {{RFC8179}}.

- Participants should consider the following aspects when responding to the WG call for adoption:

    - The draft must fit within the current WG charter, or would do so with a simple modification to the charter.

    - The purpose of the draft should be clear.

    - The proposal should be useful.

    - The quality of writing should be sufficient for document to serve as the basis further work.

    - There should be no strong technical objections.

    - Any IPR disclosures should be acceptable.

    - The work should not be in conflict with work elsewhere in the IETF.

- An informal summary of these criteria is: Is this a problem the WG wants to
solve in a way approximately as described in the draft?

- After this period, a WG Chair must, in a timely fashion, consider the comments and discussion in order to judge whether there is rough consensus to adopt the draft, and whether there is enough interest in the work that its completion is likely.

- If there is such consensus, this WG Chair will announce the result and, if positive, will
request the authors to post a new version using an appropriate naming convention.

- This whole process is subject to the appeals process of {{RFC2026}}.

# Withdrawal of an Adopted Internet-Draft

It sometimes happens that an adopted draft does not progress to WG Last Call due to lack of interest, lack of effort, or lack of consensus. In such a case, it may be desirable for the WG to formally withdraw the WG draft, such that it is explicitly removed from the WG's agenda and returned to the authors' control.

The withdrawal of WG document should be the result of an explicit decision by the relevant WG, and should follow the following recommendations.

- Upon evidence that progress on a WG draft has been stalled for a considerable period of time, a WG chair should evaluate the reasons of the apparent lack of progress. Such reasons may may include lack of interest, lack of effort, or lack of consensus.

- When progress on a document has been stalled for a considerable period of time, a WG chair, in consultation with the WG draft authors and editors, should attempt to resume progress by taking appropriate actions that will normally depend on the nature of the lack of progress. For example, a WG draft that has been stalled due to apparent lack of interest may benefit from a call for a number of volunters to produce detailed reviews of the WG draft. Similarly, a WG draft that has been stalled due to lack of effort by its authors/editors may benefit from the incorporation of new WG draft editors or the replacement of some of of the existing ones. 

- If after succesive failed attempts to make progress on a WG draft its completion remains unlikely, the WG Chairs may, at their own discretion, conclude that it is time for the WG to consider the formal withdrawal of the WG draft.

- In such case, a WG Chair or WG Secretary must send a formal WG consensus call for withdrawal of the WG draft to the WG mailing list with at least two weeks time to respond, explaining the events that have triggered the aforementioned consensus call.

- After this period, a WG Chair must, in a timely fashion, consider the comments and discussion in order to judge whether there is any concrete evidence that completion of the work may now be feasible, or whether completion of the work remains unlikely.

- If further progress on the document remains unlikely, the WG Chair will announce the result of the consensus call and the formal withdrawal of the WG document. This will result in the document being removed from the WG's agenda and returned to the authors' control.

- This whole process is subject to the appeals process of {{RFC2026}}.



# IANA Considerations

This document makes no request of IANA.

# Security Considerations

This document should not affect the security of the Internet.

# Acknowledgements

Useful comments were received from Michael Richardson, ...

--- back

# Change Log

## Draft-00

- Original version



